### PreferenceKey

Explanation of PreferenceKey protocol:
The PreferenceKey protocol in SwiftUI is used to pass and aggregate data within the view hierarchy. By conforming to the PreferenceKey protocol, you can collect data from child views and pass it to the parent view or other ancestor views. This is particularly useful when building complex custom views, as it allows for effective data passing and handling within the entire view hierarchy.

Specifically, the PreferenceKey protocol defines two key methods:

1. static var defaultValue: Self.Value
- This is a static property used to specify the default value of the PreferenceKey. This value is utilized when passing the data within the view hierarchy
2. static func reduce(value: inout Self.Value, nextValue: () -> Self.Value)
- This static method is responsible for aggregating the data from the child views. Within this method, the values from the child views are combined into a single value for propagation within the view hierarchy.

By implementing a custom type that conforms to the PreferenceKey protocol, you can define your own data propagation and aggregation logic, thereby effectively passing and handling data within complex view hierarchies. This is particularly useful when constructing custom views that require the transmission of data within the view hierarchy, for example, when child views need to pass data to the parent view or other ancestor views.

#### example

A common practical application is to collect the size information of child views within a custom view and pass this information to the parent view. This is useful when building custom views that require layout or animations based on the size of the child views.

```swift 
import SwiftUI

// define PreferenceKey type to collect size of subview
struct SizePreferenceKey: PreferenceKey {
    typealias Value = [CGSize]
    
    static var defaultValue: [CGSize] = []
    
    static func reduce(value: inout [CGSize], nextValue: () -> [CGSize]) {
        value.append(contentsOf: nextValue())
    }
}

// define View Modifie to collect size info in subview
struct SizeModifier: ViewModifier {
    func body(content: Content) -> some View {
        content.background(
            GeometryReader { geometry in
                Color.clear.preference(key: SizePreferenceKey.self, value: [geometry.size])
            }
        )
    }
}

// get size info of subview in parent view by PreferenceKey
struct ParentView: View {
    @State private var sizes: [CGSize] = []
    
    var body: some View {
        VStack {
            ChildView()
                .modifier(SizeModifier())
            Text("Total number of child views: \(sizes.count)")
        }
        .onPreferenceChange(SizePreferenceKey.self) { newSizes in
            self.sizes = newSizes
        }
    }
}

// subview
struct ChildView: View {
    var body: some View {
        Rectangle()
            .fill(Color.blue)
            .frame(width: 100, height: 100)
    }
}

//when size-infos of subview change,they will be collected by PreferenceKey in parent view and handed in onPreferenceChange to deal with these size information
```

Here is a simple example demonstrating how to use the PreferenceKey to collect the size information of child views and pass it to the parent view. In this example, a custom PreferenceKey type called SizePreferenceKey is defined to collect the size information, and a custom view modifier called SizeModifier is used to collect the size information of child views. The parent view, ParentView, uses the onPreferenceChange modifier to receive and process the size information of the child views.